=== FILE: 2411.08883v1.pdf (Total Pages: 28) ===
--- Page 1 ---
KisanQRS: A Deep Learning-based Automated Query-Response
System for Agricultural Decision-Making
Mohammad Zia Ur Rehmana,∗, Devraj Raghuvanshib, Nagendra Kumara
aIndian Institute of Technology Indore, India
bShri Govindram Seksaria Institute of Technology and Science, Indore, India
Abstract
Delivering prompt information and guidance to farmers is critical in agricultural decision-making.
Farmers’ helpline centres are heavily reliant on the expertise and availability of call centre agents,
leading to inconsistent quality and delayed responses. To this end, this article presents Kisan
Query Response System (KisanQRS), a Deep Learning-based robust query-response framework
for the agriculture sector. KisanQRS integrates semantic and lexical similarities of farmers’
queries and employs a rapid threshold-based clustering method. The clustering algorithm is
based on a linear search technique to iterate through all queries and organize them into clusters
according to their similarity. For query mapping, LSTM is found to be the optimal method. Our
proposed answer retrieval method clusters candidate answers for a crop, ranks these answer clus-
ters based on the number of answers in a cluster, and selects the leader of each cluster. The dataset
used in our analysis consists of a subset of 34 million call logs from the Kisan Call Centre (KCC),
operated under the Government of India. We evaluated the performance of the query mapping
module on the data of five major states of India with 3,00,000 samples and the quantifiable out-
comes demonstrate that KisanQRS significantly outperforms traditional techniques by achieving
96.58% top F1-score for a state. The answer retrieval module is evaluated on 10,000 samples and
it achieves a competitive NDCG score of 96.20%. KisanQRS is useful in enabling farmers to make
informed decisions about their farming practices by providing quick and pertinent responses to
their queries.
Keywords: Query-Response System, Question-Answering, Farmers’ Query, Long Short-Term
Memory, Agricultural Decision-Making
1. Introduction
Developing nations are working towards utilizing advancements in technology to gain in-
sights into the challenges faced by farmers. The agricultural sector faces numerous challenges,
such as unpredictable weather conditions, poor infrastructure, and pest infestation which often
∗Corresponding author
Email addresses: phd2101201005@iiti.ac.in (Mohammad Zia Ur Rehman),
gs2019042@sgsitsindore.in (Devraj Raghuvanshi), nagendra@iiti.ac.in (Nagendra Kumar)
Preprint submitted to Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
November 15, 2024
arXiv:2411.08883v1  [cs.IR]  26 Oct 2024

--- Page 2 ---
lead to poor agricultural yield for farmers (Luo et al., 2023). These challenges are compounded
by the lack of timely access to information which further hinders the sector’s growth. One po-
tential strategy to overcome these challenges is to furnish timely information and guidance to
farmers. Keeping this in mind, policymakers in India came up with the idea of Kisan Call Centres
(KCCs). These farmers’ helpline centres were established by the Government of India to provide
agriculture-related information and advisory services to farmers. These centres receive thou-
sands of queries every day from farmers seeking guidance on various issues related to farming.
The KCCs have become a crucial source of information for farmers, providing them with ad-
vice on crop cultivation, pest, and disease management, market prices, and government schemes
(Chachra et al., 2020; Raja and Naika, 2022).
Although the KCCs have been successful in providing information to farmers, the effective-
ness of query resolution relies heavily on the expertise and accessibility of call centre agents.
This can result in delays in responding to queries and a lack of consistency in the quality of
responses. Additionally, the KCCs receive a large volume of queries, which can be overwhelm-
ing for call centre agents. An automated query-response system can tackle these challenges by
providing quick and accurate responses to farmers’ queries using Natural Language Processing
(NLP) techniques. The massive call logs from KCC can serve as a good knowledge base for such a
query-response system. A few examples of queries and responses from KCC call logs are shown
in Table-1. Several approaches have been proposed to develop an automated system that can
provide answers to farmers’ queries by training on the KCC dataset1. However, none of these
approaches have utilized state-of-the-art artificial intelligence-based techniques to effectively
solve this problem. Furthermore, existing systems that utilize traditional techniques such as Bag
of Words (BoW), and Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF) to calculate cosine
similarities between sentence vectors fail to account for the semantic meaning of sentences. A
few approaches collected agriculture-related information through social media such as Twitter
and Facebook to solve farming problems (Zipper, 2018).
Table 1: Example of queries and responses from KCC dataset
Crop
QueryText
KccAns
1
Garlic
How to control fungal attack in
garlic
Spray to mencozeb carbendazim 35-40 grampump
2
Onion
Want to know how to increase size
and production in onion crop
To increase size and production in onion crop n : p
: k 0:52:34 1 kg at per acer
3
Wheat
Fungal attack in wheat crop
Dear farmer spray of hexaconazole 5 ec 250-400
mlacre or 20mlpump and streptocyclin 2 gram at
15 liter of water in wheat crop
4
Cotton Kapas
Control of pink bollworm of cotton
To control the pink bollworm of cotton use
pheromon and light
5
Chillies
Varieties of chilli
Varieties of chilli -agni -jwala sankeshwari-32
tejswini sitara phule jyoti pant c agnirekha
1https://kcc-chakshu.icar.gov.in/
2

--- Page 3 ---
This article presents a novel query-response method, KisanQRS. Kisan is a Hindi term that
stands for the farmer, and QRS is the acronym for Query-Response System. KisanQRS utilizes a
time-efficient threshold-based clustering algorithm to cluster similar queries. A Long Short-Term
Memory (LSTM) based model is used to map given queries to accurate clusters. Additionally,
a rule-based approach is employed to filter and ultimately return the most appropriate top-K
answers. To evaluate the performance of relevant cluster label retrieval (query mapping), we
conduct experiments on data from five states taken from the KCC dataset. Our proposed method
outperforms traditional clustering techniques significantly. To assess the quality of answers,
we conduct experiments on the ranked set of answers. KisanQRS yields promising results in
providing accurate answers to farmers’ queries.
The main contributions of this work are as follows:
1. We propose KisanQRS, a query response system for the agricultural domain. KisanQRS
can effectively provide top-K responses most relevant to the given farmer query.
2. KisanQRS introduces a novel and easy-to-implement query clustering approach based on
semantic and token-wise similarity, which takes significantly less time than other meth-
ods. It employs an LSTM-based Deep Learning (DL) approach to map farmers’ queries to
the most accurate clusters. Experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed
model.
3. KisanQRS proposes a novel answer retrieval method. The proposed answer retrieval method
is based on clustering of candidate answers for a crop, then ranking of these answer clus-
ters, and finally electing the leader of each cluster. The proposed method achieves a high
NDCG score of 96.2%.
Extensive research has been conducted in the field of question-answering (QA). The existing
QA methods can be broadly categorized as; 1) Knowledge-based methods and 2) Machine Learn-
ing (ML) and Deep Learning-based methods. Next, we present related works based on these two
categories followed by a summary of their limitations and our research objectives formulated as
problem statements.
1.1. Knowledge-based Methods
These methods use structured knowledge representation frameworks, such as ontologies, to
represent the relationships between concepts in a domain. Knowledge-based methods rely on
domain-specific knowledge bases and reasoning mechanisms to generate answers to questions.
Saxena et al. (Saxena et al., 2020) uses knowledge base embeddings to encode information about
the entities and relations in the knowledge graph. The paper suggests that incorporating knowl-
edge base embeddings can significantly improve the performance of multi-hop question answer-
ing over knowledge graphs. Devi et al. (Devi and Dua, 2017) presents a question-answering
system that is designed specifically for the agriculture domain. This paper proposes a system
that uses ontologies to represent the knowledge required to answer questions in the agricul-
ture domain. The system is designed to handle both factoid and descriptive questions. Deepa
et al. (Deepa and Vigneshwari, 2022) proposes a method for automatically constructing an on-
tology for the agriculture domain using part of speech tags and the Jaccard similarity method.
3

============================================================

=== FILE: 517.pdf (Total Pages: 7) ===
--- Page 1 ---
2025 IEEE 4th International Conference on Robotics, Automation, Artificial-Intelligence and Internet-of-Things (RAAICON)
27–28 November 2025, Military Institute of Science and Technology (MIST), Dhaka, Bangladesh
A Speech-Driven, LLM-Powered Multidomain
Assistant for Farmers
Atiqur Rahman
Dept. of IoT and Robotics Engineering (IRE)
University of Frontier Technology, Bangladesh
Gazipur-1750, Bangladesh
1801025@iot.uftb.ac.bd
Nishat Tasnim Shishir
Dept. of IoT and Robotics Engineering (IRE)
University of Frontier Technology, Bangladesh
Gazipur-1750, Bangladesh
1901030@iot.uftb.ac.bd
Saurav Kundu
Dept. of IoT and Robotics Engineering (IRE)
University of Frontier Technology, Bangladesh
Gazipur-1750, Bangladesh
1801022@iot.uftb.ac.bd
Md. Moniruzzaman Hemal
Dept. of IoT and Robotics Engineering (IRE)
University of Frontier Technology, Bangladesh
Gazipur-1750, Bangladesh
1801007@iot.uftb.ac.bd
Md. Ashiqussalehin
Dept. of IoT and Robotics Engineering (IRE)
University of Frontier Technology, Bangladesh
Gazipur-1750, Bangladesh
ashiqussalehin0001@uftb.ac.bd
Saurav Chandra Das
Dept. of IoT and Robotics Engineering (IRE)
University of Frontier Technology, Bangladesh
Gazipur-1750, Bangladesh
saurav0001@uftb.ac.bd
Abstract—Farmers often must sort through fragmented, de-
layed or inscrutable guidance across soil management, irrigation
and disease control and caring for animals. Existing tools are
mostly text-focused, one-domain-centric and offer no guarantees
to unsafe outputs, impeding on trust and usage particularly
amongst low-literacy users. In this work, we introduce a speech-
powered, search-augmented assistant assisted by LLMs for re-
returning grounded, source-attributed advice in diverse agricul-
tural domains. The system ingests farmer questions via automatic
speech recognition (ASR), achieving an 18.5% Word Error Rate
(WER) on domain-specific queries. It then retrieves relevant
pas- sages from a curated set of agricultural corpora leveraging
semantic embeddings and vector search with FAISS and queries
an LLM to generate informative, concise, context-dependent
responses. To mitigate hallucinations, the system enforces strict
factual ground- ing by verifying all generated statements against
the retrieved sources and provides explicit citations; output
is rendered by natural TTS for hands-free interaction. We
assess under realistic conditions on four axes: latency, relevance,
concurrency and resilience. The assistant attains 3.5 s average
latency, with a real- time cutoff at 10 s; about 3% of calls are
killed to preserve responsiveness. Relevance average 0.85 which
is high similarity. Under load mean latency grows from 4 s to
7 s; simulated delays of 0-.5 s slightly increase latency with-
out reducing relevance. The contributions illustrate a working
model for domain-curated, trustable knowledge integration and
explicable outputs for operationally-ready decision-support in
agriculture. We address deployment issues and how to extend
to multilingual, locale- specific circumstances with a goal of
supporting productivity enhancement while maintaining farmer
welfare.
Index Terms—Large Language Model (LLM), Text-to-speech
(TTS), Speech recognition, Agricultural technology, Natural lan-
guage processing (NLP), Multidomain systems, Smart farming.
I. INTRODUCTION
Agriculture remains the dominant sector in livelihood and
food security provision worldwide, particularly in develop-
ing countries. Farmers generally face complicated, dynamic
problems like soil erosion, pests infestations, climate unpre-
dictability, animal disease infections, and price volatility in
the market. Farmers must be equipped with timely, consistent,
and location-specific advisory services to enable them to make
appropriate decisions that result in improved productivity and
sustainability. But there are drawbacks to conventional ex-
tension mechanisms such as latency, geographical constraints,
language translation, and non-personalization [1].
Emerging trends in machine learning, NLP, and conver-
sational Al provide us with great potential to overcome these
limitations. Such systems by which farmers can pose questions
using natural language, receive relevant answers from exten-
sion and scientific databases, and obtain voice or text advice
are also under further investigation.
But even now there are loopholes. Systems tend to limit to
text-only input/output, leaving out the less literate or those
who prefer to communicate orally. Multi-domain coverage
(soil, pests, irrigation, animal husbandry, etc.), handling re-
gional/local variability (soil type, climate, languages), and
voice-based interaction and incorpo- rated in an uninterrupted
pipeline remains virtually untapped in an end-to-end approach.
To cover these gaps, the proposed work has a new end-
to-end system for a speech-to-speech agricultural question-
answering system with speech-to-text, semantic embeddings,
979-8-3315-9281-3/25/$31.00©2025IEEE

--- Page 2 ---
FAISS-based vector search over a manually curated multi-
domain corpus, and a LLM-based answer generation with
output synthesized back to speech. The system focuses on
traceability of answers to the context passages retrieved,
supports multiple agricultural domains, and is appropriate for
low-literacy, multilingual, rural user settings.
The main contributions of the proposed work are:
• We introduced a speech-Driven, multi-domain agricul-
tural assistant that converts speech to text, retrieves
relevant knowledge using FAISS, generates answers via
an LLM, and delivers responses through text-to-speech,
overcoming literacy barriers.
• We used a curated dataset spanning diverse agricultural
domains to enable the system to address a wide range of
farmer queries.
• We quantitatively evaluate under realistic operating con-
ditions demonstrating practical performance and scalabil-
ity.
Rest of the paper is arranged as follows: Section II gives
a summary of some previous research activities related to
assisting various voice and LLMs powered assistant as well as
describing their research gaps also. Section III describes the
methodology with the overall workflow of the study in detail.
Section IV presents the results and discussion. Finally, section
V contains the conclusion and future work of the paper.
II. LITERATURE REVIEW
Farmers need advice to be timely, dependable, but good old
extension can’t always get there when it’s needed. That oppor-
tunity has lured researchers to Al in particular, conversation
systems and voice tools for guidance that can be personalized,
local and on demand.
However The hitch is, most machines are still tailor-made
for one purpose and autonomous, inexpensive operation in
dirty field conditions remains difficult (Maria et al., 2025
[5]). Modular and recon- figurable robots attempt to be more
versatile, using centralized or decentralized, or hybrid control
for executing the different tasks. Nonetheless, most of the
experiments and cases regard- ing robustness (Hernandez et
al. 2025 [6]), energy efficiency and scale coordination have
taken place in simulations or small pilots rather than in
real commercial farms. Academic research based on popular
platforms (e.g., Alexa, Siri) has been shown to provide useful
advice for what crops to choose, and daily chores. However,
these efforts rely heavily on dependable internet and closed
commercial ecosystems; and seldom present cohesive plans to
integrate weather, pricing or soil-test data or scale solutions as
well as monitor performance over a period of time (Pancham et
al., 2024) [7]. Task dedicated chatbots as Farmer Companion,
demonstrate that both supervision and deep learning models
enable delivering always-on support but performance depends
on the quality of training data and usually decreases on multi-
turn, context heavy questions (Ilakiyaselvan et al., 2024 [8]).
And combining conversational LLMs with ASR can enable
people to query agronomic datasets in a more natural way,
or to fuse sensor streams for precision decisions. However,
data precision, latency and processing throughput are common
bottlenecks (Potamitis et al., 2023 [9]). Wide reviews illustrate
how LLMS, LVMs and multimodal models are exploited
for pest/disease detection, soil mapping and yield support.
They emphasize the associated productivity gains yet point to
lin- gering problems inadequacy of data collection, inefficient
training, benchmark standards and ethics (Hongyan et al., 2024
[10]; Tawseef et al., 2024 [11]). The early deployments at
scale give hope: one generative chatbot was deployed in four
countries, reached more than 15,000 farmers and answered
over 300k queries. Those numbers highlight the possibilities
and the necessity to build trust, fact-checking and ongoing
engagement (Namita et al., 2024) [12].
In brief, most of today’s systems are outmoded in that
they’re narrow, text-based, and difficult for farmers to con-
firm. Few succeed in giving real speech-in/speech-out user
experience for low literate, hand busy use; few actually go
so far as to bridge soil-irrigation-pest/disease-animal care end
to end or point from authoritative agronomy where farmers
can actually go check. Real world latency under load, num-
ber of simultaneous users and immunity to noise/jitter are
not abundant either. We provide these missing links with a
voice-first, retrieval-augmented assistant learned from curated
corpora, and report quantitative results for latency, relevance,
concurrency and noise resistance.
III. METHODOLOGY
Fig. 1: Block diagram of the proposed system.
Fig. 1 outlines our proposed pipeline for generating voice-
based agricultural guidance using LLMs. A user’s spoken
query is first processed for noise suppression and converted to
text via automatic speech recognition (ASR). The text query
is then used to retrieve the top-k relevant passages from an
agronomic corpus using a sentence-transformer model and a
FAISS vector index. These passages, along with the original
query, are passed to a large language model (e.g., 4- bit
quantized Llama-2) to generate a context-aware draft. This
draft undergoes verification for factual accuracy and citation
integrity against the retrieved sources, followed by safety

--- Page 3 ---
screening and a polishing step for clarity and structure. The
final response is delivered via text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis.
The system is designed for real-time, transparent, and robust
assistance in on-farm environments.
The system’s pipeline begins with speech processing. We
employed a fine-tuned Whisper-base model for ASR. The
model was adapted using a small, internal dataset of agricul-
tural queries spoken in regional accents, achieving a final
Word Error Rate (WER) of 18.5% on our hold-out test set, as
detailed in Table I. This represents a significant improvement
over the baseline model, which was not tuned to agricultural
terminology. This level of accuracy was deemed sufficient for
capturing query intent, which is subsequently refined by the
retrieval mechanism. For TTS, a pre-trained, natural-sounding
voice model was used to synthesize the final text response.
TABLE I: ASR performance (Word Error Rate %).
Model
LibriSpeech
(General)
Agro-Query Set
(Domain-Specific)
Whisper-base (Baseline)
12.1%
31.4%
Whisper-base (Fine-Tuned)
14.5%
18.5%
A. Data Collection
The system’s knowledge base was constructed from a
cu- rated set of publicly available, authoritative agricultural
sources. This included: (1) Extension program publications
from sev- eral land-grant universities (e.g., University of Cali-
fornia Agri- culture and Natural Resources, Cornell Coopera-
tive Extension), (2) FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations) practical guides on sustainable farming,
and (3) A subset of the AgroQA dataset [13] for question-
answer pair examples. This combined corpus, totaling 5.92k
documents (as opposed to training examples), covers diverse
domains including soil management, pest control, irrigation,
and animal husbandry. The input questions average 11,201
characters, while the output responses are more extensive, with
a total length of approximately 22,580 characters (reflecting
the Q&A pairs from AgroQA).
B. Data Preprocessing
Data from these sources, which included PDFs and web
articles, underwent a rigorous preprocessing pipeline to elim-
inate noise and irrelevant information, ensuring only high-
quality, task-relevant data were fed into the model.
To optimize the processing of lengthy documents, the
dataset was divided into smaller, semantically coherent chunks.
Each chunk di is derived from the original dataset D and
is split with an overlap O to preserve context across chunk
boundaries. This chunking process is formalized as:
di = split(Di, O)
where Di denotes the document, and O is the overlap length
between chunks.
C. Model Selection and Configuration
The study employs a pre-trained transformer model, fine-
tuned for agricultural tasks. Selected for its strong text- gen-
eration performance, the model uses advanced quantization
to operate efficiently, even in resource-constrained environ-
ments. The model utilizes a temperature parameter, T, which
modulates the randomness of the generated responses, ensur-
ing a balance between deterministic and varied outputs. The
model’s behavior is defined as follows:
T ∈ [0, 1] where T = 0 leads to deterministic output,
and T = 1 allows for maximum randomness.
Additionally, a response length constraint, L, is set to ensure
that the generated outputs are not excessively long, promoting
succinctness without losing context. The maximum number of
tokens generated, L, is defined as:
L = max new tokens
A custom stopping criterion is incorporated into the model
to halt text generation when specific tokens or sequences are
encountered. This ensures that responses remain concise and
relevant to the query at hand. The stopping criterion can be
mathematically described as:
f(x) =





True,
if token sequence x matches predefined
stop tokens,
False,
otherwise.
where x represents the input token sequence.
D. Proposed algorithm
Algorithm 1 implements an end-to-end retrieval-augmented
generation pipeline. It first fixes a random seed s, configures
quantization Q, and loads model M and its tokenizer in eval-
uation mode with custom stopping criteria. The corpus D is
normalized, split into overlapping chunks (size C, overlap O),
embedded with sentence-transformer model E, and indexed
with FAISS. For each user query, the retriever returns the
top-k passages; the query, chat history, and retrieved context
condition a conversational chain that generates a grounded
answer with explicit source snippets. The function outputs
the answer A and sources S, and persists the model/version,
generation settings G, dataset hash, FAISS index, embedding
metadata, and seed s for reproducibility and auditability.
E. Environment and Computational Setup
All experiments were conducted on a single NVIDIA T4
GPU (Google Colab). The software environment used Python
3.12.11 and PyTorch 2.8.0, with FAISS for vector search and
a Llama-2-7b backbone LLM. All reported metrics (latency,
relevance, concurrency, robustness) reflect this T4-class con-
figuration, as detailed in Tables II and III. This standardized
setup ensures fair comparisons and facilitates replication.

============================================================

=== FILE: AgriLink Paper1.pdf (Total Pages: 13) ===
--- Page 1 ---
ScienceDirect
Available online at www.sciencedirect.com
Procedia Computer Science 258 (2025) 3510–3522
1877-0509 © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0)
Peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the International Conference on Machine Learning and 
Data Engineering
10.1016/j.procs.2025.04.607
Available online at www.sciencedirect.com
00 (2025) 000–000
www.elsevier.com/locate/procedia
International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engineering
Agri Assist: An AI Integrated Farmer Assistant
Pennabadi Devendra Reddya, K Satya Sampath Reddya, P Jayantha, Bhanu Prakash
Kakarlaa, Roshni M Balakrishnana,∗
aDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering, Amrita School of Computing Bengaluru, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, India
Abstract
In this paper, an AI Agriculture Assistant integrating a crop recommendation system and an agricultural query chatbot is developed
to provide guidance on crop cultivation. Based on this, the crop recommendation system uses a stack ensemble model comprising
Random Forest and Gradient Boosting, and an accuracy of 99.32% and F1-Score of 99.26%. Here, word embeddings are performed
through FastText which allows for a quick response time (0.0244 seconds) and a cosine similarity of 0.88629 for the chatbot. With
RSA encryption for securing user data, we ensure secure communication. It uses the critical elements of the soil composition,
weather and crop performance in formulating tailored agricultural guidance. Back end communication is done through Flask,
and the entire system was deployed in this manner with a web interface to drive usage and for real time data responses. This
entire application helps the farmers in decision making regarding crops cultivation and management through accurate and secure
assistance.
© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)
Peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engi-
neering.
Keywords: Agriculture; AI Assistant; Crop Recommendation; Chatbot; FastText
1. Introduction
Agriculture has been long the backbone of economies and in developing countries especially, it has contributed
greatly to food security, employment and GDP. As global populations grow and traditional farming practices are infil-
trated by climate change, it is critically important we have solutions that rely on advanced, data-driven technologies
to help optimize crop yield, lower costs and foster sustainable agricultural operations. While the most immediate
application of technological advances — particularly in artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) — to
agriculture may be the provision of intelligent decision support systems that aid farmers, there may be longer term
benefits as well.
AI helps comprehensively in agriculture in several ways, including in checking the diseases and pests that affects
plants, checking the maturity level of crops, the quality of soil and the weather condition, help in making utilization
∗ Corresponding author. Tel.: +0-000-000-0000 ; fax: +0-000-000-0000.
E-mail address: m roshni@blr.amrita.edu
1877-0509 © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)
Peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engineering.
Available online at www.sciencedirect.com
00 (2025) 000–000
www.elsevier.com/locate/procedia
International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engineering
Agri Assist: An AI Integrated Farmer Assistant
Pennabadi Devendra Reddya, K Satya Sampath Reddya, P Jayantha, Bhanu Prakash
Kakarlaa, Roshni M Balakrishnana,∗
aDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering, Amrita School of Computing Bengaluru, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, India
Abstract
In this paper, an AI Agriculture Assistant integrating a crop recommendation system and an agricultural query chatbot is developed
to provide guidance on crop cultivation. Based on this, the crop recommendation system uses a stack ensemble model comprising
Random Forest and Gradient Boosting, and an accuracy of 99.32% and F1-Score of 99.26%. Here, word embeddings are performed
through FastText which allows for a quick response time (0.0244 seconds) and a cosine similarity of 0.88629 for the chatbot. With
RSA encryption for securing user data, we ensure secure communication. It uses the critical elements of the soil composition,
weather and crop performance in formulating tailored agricultural guidance. Back end communication is done through Flask,
and the entire system was deployed in this manner with a web interface to drive usage and for real time data responses. This
entire application helps the farmers in decision making regarding crops cultivation and management through accurate and secure
assistance.
© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)
Peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engi-
neering.
Keywords: Agriculture; AI Assistant; Crop Recommendation; Chatbot; FastText
1. Introduction
Agriculture has been long the backbone of economies and in developing countries especially, it has contributed
greatly to food security, employment and GDP. As global populations grow and traditional farming practices are infil-
trated by climate change, it is critically important we have solutions that rely on advanced, data-driven technologies
to help optimize crop yield, lower costs and foster sustainable agricultural operations. While the most immediate
application of technological advances — particularly in artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) — to
agriculture may be the provision of intelligent decision support systems that aid farmers, there may be longer term
benefits as well.
AI helps comprehensively in agriculture in several ways, including in checking the diseases and pests that affects
plants, checking the maturity level of crops, the quality of soil and the weather condition, help in making utilization
∗ Corresponding author. Tel.: +0-000-000-0000 ; fax: +0-000-000-0000.
E-mail address: m roshni@blr.amrita.edu
1877-0509 © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)
Peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engineering.
© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0)
Peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the International Conference on Machine Learning and Data Engineering

--- Page 2 ---
 
Pennabadi Devendra Reddy  et al. / Procedia Computer Science 258 (2025) 3510–3522 
3511
2
P.D. Reddy et al. / 00 (2025) 000–000
of resources and in getting the best returns on investment [1]. They also identify various issues concerning supply and
certain strategies of staffing as well as the anticipation of market demands.
This is especially important in determining where it is suitable to cultivate crops and the time of the year, application
of fertilizer and pesticides, among other matters that would help in estimating productions and therefore cutting down
on expenses like water and fertilizer. The hitches such as weather are being avoided through this, it helps markets and
it plays a big role in planning for the farmers’ budgets [2].
A chatbot is the type of software program that can actually replicate the human communication via using the text
or speech communication [3]. It makes use of the artificial intelligence (AI) for understanding and responding to user
inputs often in an attempt to provide a service, respond to questions or ease the process. Several applications, including
messaging apps, websites and customer support portals can incorporate the chatbots [4].
chatbots are of significance to farming organizations if they need to step up production or organization and also in
decision making. Some of the advantage are; Access to information on crop management, pests, climate and price of
the produce in the market, this assist in economical and effective use of resources as well as supervision. It is critical
to understand that chatbots simplify each day’s tasks, introduce new technologies and market information, and help
increase the level of readiness to respond in case of an emergency and allocate resources [5].
As chatbots become integral in handling sensitive user data and performing critical tasks, robust security measures
are essential to protect against cyber threats and ensure user trust [6]. Cryptographic techniques play a important role in
security framework by providing mechanisms for data confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity. [7]. Encryption (both
symmetric and asymmetric) ensures that data remains private and accessible only to authorized parties, while hash
functions and digital signatures verify data integrity and authenticate identities, preventing tampering and imperson-
ation. Secure communication protocols further enhance protection by encrypting data in transit, making cryptographic
algorithms indispensable for maintaining the security and reliability of chatbot interactions.
This study will work on the following aspects:
• Implementation of a stacked ensemble model for crop recommendation.
• Utilisation of NLP techniques and cryptography algorithm to develop the chabot with data encryption.
• Creation of an application with integrated solution that adds these technologies to offer the intelligent, safe, and
convenient help to the farmers to improve the decision making.
The development of this AI Agriculture Assistant includes the development of a crop recommendation system as
an assistant to a Chatbot for agricultural queries is presented in this paper. Based on the crop recommendations it
employs a stacked ensemble model to increase predictive accuracy and the use of FastText for rapid and efficient
query resolution. RSA encryption is used throughout for secure communication and user data privacy on the system.
The proposed assistant combines highly effective machine learning techniques and robust security measures to provide
predictable, personalized agricultural guidance that may improve the farmers’ decision making.
This study is divided into multiple sections. In Section I, an overview of the proposed work is presented, Section
II discusses the literature review, Section III describes the data used in this study, Section IV describes the proposed
methodology, Section V provides discussion on results of the proposed method and comparison with models, and
Section VI presents the conclusion and future work.
2. LITERATURE REVIEW
In recent years, agricultural chatbots and crop recommendation systems have emerged as pivotal tools in enhancing
farming efficiency and decision-making processes. These systems leverage machine learning and AI techniques to
provide personalized advice and recommendations tailored to farmers’ specific needs and regional conditions.This
literature review aims to explore different approaches, advancements, and challenges in collaborative filtering, seeking
to summarize and evaluate the existing research in this area. Rao et al [8] conducted a comparative study of supervised
learning techniques such as KNN, Random Forest and Decision Tree where they used a data set of 22 varieties of crops
regarding Random forest present higher accuracy. This paper contributes by providing insights into the effectiveness
of machine learning techniques for crop prediction, emphasizing the importance of precision, recall, and F1 Score in
model evaluation. Based on Gini and Entropy criteria, the paper provide the analysis of each model presented helps

--- Page 3 ---
3512 
Pennabadi Devendra Reddy  et al. / Procedia Computer Science 258 (2025) 3510–3522
P.D. Reddy et al. / 00 (2025) 000–000
3
in choosing the most accurate one out of the numerous models used in crop recommendation. Shah et al [9] conducts
a comparative analysis of different supervised machine learning prediction, including voting regression, K-Nearest
Neighbour (KNN), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Linear Descriptive Analysis (LDA), Least Absolute Shrinkage
& Selection Operator (LASSO) regression, and Nearest Centroid Classifier, to forecast appropriate crops, with KNN
and SVM achieving the highest accuracy of 97.78%.The research work therefore seeks to identify the robust machine
learning algorithm that will be more effective in suggesting right crop to grow given certain sets of data.
The paper highlights the need for a chatbot in the education domain to provide visitor satisfaction.Ranoliya et al
[10] presents a design of a chatbot that efficiently answers queries based on FAQs using AIML, that ensures user sat-
isfaction. The chatbot is designed for universities and intended to engage with curious stuternd with several academic
related questions. Hiremath et al [11] suggested about an automated system for the education sector, which aims to de-
liver answers to the information requests of the users through machine learning, natural language processing, pattern
matching and data processing algorithms. In this study, there is the introduction of the chatbots which may include
chatter-robots that function in areas that involve auto replies or functioning through knowledge which might be input
in advance.
Niranjan et al [12] aims to develop an Agriculture Question Answer System to obtain accurate answers for a farmer
query through use of machine learning classification. The solution includes training of the system, with the help of
RNN sequence to sequence algorithm, the generation of the dataset in the format of XML, stressing the effectiveness
of the RNN option as compared to other machine learning tools, such as SVMS and logistic regression. Momaya et
al [13] described a farming help chatbot named “Krushi -The Farmer Chatbot” that seeks to foster an improvement
in decision support in farming with an aim of boosting crop yield through answering typical farmer’s questions on
subjects like crop sowing, diseases or seasonality. The chatbot learning model is an end-to-end trainable model based
on AI and ML and the dataset obtained from Kisan Call Centre (KCC) on answering basic and specific queries
regarding weather conditions, protection of plants & animals, market prices, use of fertilizers, government schemes,
and soil testing with an average accuracy of about 96.1% using RASA X.
Suebsombut et al [14] designed a LINE chatbot application that helps farmers in a decision making process con-
cerning the cultivation of crops including irrigation, fertilizer, disease, insect pests, and weeds control. The study
therefore merges the chatbot with a recommendation system and IoT technologies with the purpose of offering the
farmer information, knowledge as well as recommendations concerning crop growing. Dhivvya et al [15] demon-
strate competence in several tasks aimed at learning English, for instance, question and dialogue generation or the
attainment of high Bi-lingual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU) benchmarks hence exemplifying its efficacy in different
learning environments. The study made use of datasets with word samples, dialogues for model fine-tuning as well as
messenger exchanges that actually occurred in real-life in order to teach chatbots how to comprehend emotions. This
underlines how significant it is.
Kuriakose et al [16] uses Deep Learning techniques especially Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) to develop an
analytical model for determining the crop yield based on the type of soil, climate and rainfall to support the farmers
to maximize yields on their farms. This study compares the performance of Deep Learning models as compared to
the regression models, in the context of crop yield prediction and remarks on how Deep Learning outperforms the
regression models. Damaraju et al [17] suggested the image based classification as it has given the best results rather
visual classifications in plant disease detection. This study used Hyperspectral imaging for plant disease detection
through capturing Spectral signatures that are unique to diseased regions. The study proposed different that have been
recommended for use in disease diagnosis in plants, including deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) where
diseases like powdery mildew on grape leaves were diagnosed with high accuracy.
Sonawane et al. [18] have outlined a methodology that have essential recourse in deep learning especially using
LSTM models the project seeks to design a personalized chatbot that may be used in the student portal platforms
for generating autonomous prompts. The study enhances the generation of text depending on LSTM models thereby
making experience to be even better in an application. The study has improved the accuracy to 92%, with the precision
and flexibility of the results underlined by the fact that when the measures have been presented in different formats,
the accuracy has still ranged between 91 and 93%. During training of the chatbots, 86% of interaction rates were
achieved.
Malaka et al [19] provides insight how to use chatbots in a secure environment and sheds light on how their
design, implementation, and usage practices can affect metadata security.The paper shows how securely built chatbots

============================================================

=== FILE: AgriTalk_Revolutionizing_Farming_with_a_Multilingual_Chatbot4.pdf (Total Pages: 6) ===
--- Page 1 ---
AgriTalk: Revolutionizing Farming with a 
Multilingual Chatbot 
Abhishek M V, A Jaya Sreekar, Mohith D M, Susmitha Vekkot, Bhavana V. 
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Amrita School of Engineering, 
Bengaluru, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, India. 
abhishekmv2004@gmail.com, ajsreekar1436@gmail.com, smohith17@gmail.com, 
v susmitha@blr.amrita.edu, v bhavana@blr.amrita.edu 
 
Abstract—Agriculture plays a vital role in the economy of 
many nations, especially in regions where a significant portion 
of the population depends on it for their livelihood. Despite its 
importance, linguistic and technological barriers often hinder 
access to accurate agricultural information. This article 
introduces 
a 
multilingual 
chatbot 
designed 
to 
address 
agricultural queries efficiently. Leveraging Natural Language 
Processing and deep learning models, this multi-language 
chatbot accommodates English, Hindi, Malayalam, Kannada, and 
Telugu. Since the query is matched with relevant responses using 
cosine similarity on the sentence-transformers architecture, the 
system ensures that relevant responses are given. With 
IndicTrans2 (AI4Bharat), a robust neural machine translation 
model tailored for Indian languages, the facility provides a 
single-machine foundation on which translations about 22 Indian 
languages with subsequent additional features-text-to-speech 
functionality enhances accessibility to varied users. The system 
design, data preprocessing, implementation, and evaluation 
metrics are covered in this study, which also shows how it might 
help farmers and other agricultural stakeholders. 
Keywords—NLP, multilingual systems, sentence transformers, 
cosine similarity, agricultural chatbots, and accessibility. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The global economy depends heavily on agriculture, 
especially in areas where a sizable section of the population 
depends on it for living. Despite its critical importance, the 
industry nevertheless faces challenges such restricted access to 
accurate and timely information. Agricultural research often 
covers a wide range of topics, such as weather forecasting, 
market trends, crop management, and pest control. It is 
essential to be able to answer these questions accurately 
and contextually to empower farmers and increase output. 
However, the main challenges remain the diversity of 
regional languages and linguistic hurdles in many rural areas. 
To address these challenges, multilingual tools are both 
socially and technologically required [1-3]. 
 
Natural language processing (NLP) and deep learning 
have emerged as revolutionary technologies for developing 
intelligent systems, such as chatbots, for a variety of 
application domains. Multilingual chatbots are very useful 
for agricultural advising services because they can process 
requests in multiple languages [4-5]. However, existing 
algorithms sometimes struggle to answer complex queries,  
   
cannot ensure the accuracy of generated responses, and are 
unable to adequately account for language diversity [6-8]. 
These disadvantages emphasize the need for robust 
multilingual chatbots that can bridge the linguistic and 
informational limitations that farmers face. 
The application of NLP to the development of domain- 
specific chatbots has been the subject of numerous studies. 
Using English datasets and simple keyword-matching 
algorithms, one approach created a chatbot for agricultural 
consulting services; however, it struggled with semantics and 
did not support regional languages. To address multilingual 
queries, another study included translation tools; nonetheless, 
the translations frequently produced inaccurate results. On 
the other hand, by guaranteeing precise and contextual 
translations across 22 Indian languages, this work makes 
use of IndicTrans2 (AI4Bharat), a cutting-edge multilingual 
neural machine translation model, to successfully address 
linguistic variety. Deep learning methods have been used to 
develop chatbots in other fields, but they have not addressed 
the linguistic and contextual difficulties that the agricultural 
industry faces. 
The lack of precise multilingual support for agricultural 
inquiries and the requirement for an effective method to 
match queries with pertinent answers in a big data set are 
the two main issues that this study aims to address to close 
these gaps. The proposed work presents a multilingual chat- 
bot that works for Telugu, Hindi, Malayalam, Kannada, and 
English. The system uses cosine similarity-based matcher-like 
queries with relevant responses and state-of-the-art sentence 
transformers for creating semantic embeddings. High-quality, 
contextually sensitive translations specific to Indian languages 
are guaranteed by the IndicTrans2’s translation capabilities. 
The following are the contributions made by this work: 
• creation of a multilingual chatbot specifically designed to 
answer questions about agriculture and consider the 
language diversity of farmers. 
• Integration of modern NLP techniques, including 
sentence-transformers, to assure semantic understanding 
and correctness. 
• Incorporation of text-to-speech capability to boost  
accessibility for non-literate users. 
2025 8th International Conference on Electronics, Materials Engineering & Nano-Technology (IEMENTech) | 979-8-3315-2076-2/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/IEMENTECH65115.2025.10959547
Authorized licensed use limited to: Amrita School of Engineering. Downloaded on February 18,2026 at 03:49:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
979-8-3315-2076-2/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE

--- Page 2 ---
• Incorporation of IndicTrans2 for accurate and nuanced 
translations across supported languages. 
• Comprehensive examination of the system’s performance 
across numerous languages and query types. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II 
addresses the system design and implementation, including 
details regarding data preprocessing, embedding generation, 
and query matching. Section III discusses the evaluation 
technique and findings, focusing on relevance scores, user 
comments, and translation accuracy. Section IV discusses 
the limitations of the existing work and outlines potential 
future improvements. Finally, Section V closes the study by 
summarizing the contributions and underlining its broader 
implications [9], [10]. 
 
II. LITERATURE   SURVEY 
Numerous chatbot solutions have been investigated by 
researchers to address difficulties in agriculture. With strong 
usage ratings, Arora et al. [1] demonstrated the potential of 
a generative neural network-based chatbot that can perform 
tasks connected to crops, weather forecasting, and pest 
control. Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) techniques 
were utilized by Singh et al. [2] to build Farmer Chat, 
a multilingual chatbot that achieved a 75% accuracy rate 
in over 300,000 user queries, considerably enhancing user 
engagement. 
 
Using the Kisan Call Center dataset, Momaya et al. [3] 
built a RASA-based chatbot that relates to WhatsApp. It 
reduced the quantity of unanswered inquiries by 40% and 
attained an intent classification accuracy of 96.1%. Jain et 
al. [4] developed a multilingual chatbot utilizing NLP to 
respond to inquiries on fertilizer, pest management, and soil 
health, emphasizing the technology’s capacity to overcome 
communication barriers in rural areas. 
 
Mishra et al. [5] demonstrated the efficacy of large 
language models by utilizing ChatGPT to address cross- 
lingual agricultural issues, achieving over 90% accuracy in 
multilingual datasets. Alimkar et al. [6] developed Kisan 
Mitra, a chatbot that provides weather updates, guidance on 
crop selection, and information on government regulations, 
emphasizing its utility for impoverished farmers. Niranjan et 
al. [7] demonstrated the efficacy of artificial neural networks 
(ANN) in managing historical data by developing a chatbot 
that responds to inquiries about crop management and pest 
control. Bhatia et al. [8] introduced a similarity search-based 
chatbot that utilizes natural language processing techniques 
to enhance question resolution in domains such as soil health 
and fertilizer recommendations. 
 
Prakash et al. [9] utilized NLP and machine vision to create 
a chatbot that can answer to text and image-based agricultural 
queries and identify plant illnesses with 85% accuracy. A 
scalable chatbot framework for crop planning and fertilizer 
prediction was proposed by Maduri et al. [10] and was 
lauded for its intuitive design. Although it lacked complicated 
NLP capabilities and performance measurements, Anjali 
et al. [11] focused on a voice-activated chatbot designed for 
rural farmers that made communication simple. An NLP-
driven chatbot was constructed by Biswas et al. [12] for real-
time soil management query answer; however, its usability 
was impeded by its limited language support. 
A chatbot optimized for mobile devices was built by 
Nikhil Sharma et al. [13], who prioritized accessibility 
above sophisticated natural language processing. Despite its 
lack of sophistication, the system’s objective was to utilize 
rudimentary machine learning techniques to solve farming 
challenges. On the other hand, a structured Q&A framework 
for agricultural queries was presented in [14]. Although 
effective for certain queries, the system was less adaptable 
than more dynamic methods due to its lack of conversational 
flexibility and sophisticated metrics. 
Using the CTC approach with XLSR Wav2Vec2.0, Akhilesh 
et al. [15] demonstrated cross-lingual transfer learning with 
a WER of 0.58 for Tamil speech recognition, but they had 
trouble scaling to other dialects. Despite scarce resources, 
Vancha et al. [16] helped preserve the Sourashtra language by 
creating a Kaldi-based speech recognition system that achieved 
a WER of 5.5% on 2000 utterances. Using an Arduino Mega 
2560 and GSM 800L, Shrivastava et al. [17] suggested an 
automated watering system that relies on sensor data to send 
out email and SMS alerts, but it lacks sophisticated predictive 
analytics. 
III. SYSTEM    ARCHITECTURE 
The system architecture of the proposed multilingual chat- 
bot, as shown in Fig.1, is designed to handle varied  
agricultural 
queries 
efficiently 
and 
accurately. 
The 
architecture is made of multiple interconnected modules that 
enable the chatbot to analyze user queries, execute 
translations, build embeddings, match inquiries to relevant 
answers, and offer both written and voice responses. Such an 
approach coincides with techniques mentioned in [11], where 
multilingual processing and modular chatbot designs were 
stressed to accommodate linguistic and functional variety. 
A. System Flow 
The following steps outline the flow of the system: 
a) User-Submitted Queries: When a user submits a 
question via the chatbot interface, the system starts up. 
Any of the accessible languages-English, Hindi, Malayalam, 
Kannada, or Telugu may be used for this input. The 
inquiry is recorded by the interface as text and transmitted 
to other 
modules 
for 
processing. 
Effective 
query 
processing in multilingual input systems depends on 
seamless user 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Amrita School of Engineering. Downloaded on February 18,2026 at 03:49:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- Page 3 ---
 
 
 
Fig. 1. System Architecture of the Proposed Model 
 
interaction because it directly affects response efficiency and 
accuracy, guaranteeing a consistent experience across multiple 
languages. 
 
b) Identification and Translation of Languages: The 
first module applies language detection technology to identify 
the query’s language. If the query is not in English, 
IndicTrans2 (AI4Bharat) is used to turn it into English. Since 
the dataset and embedding models are trained in English, 
this translation stage provides language consistency for all 
operation. By focusing on the nuances of Indian languages, 
IndicTrans2 boosts translation quality and produces exact and 
contextually sensitive translations. 
 
c) Embedding Generation of Queries: Once translated, 
the query is given to the embedding producing module. 
This module employs the sentence-transformers model 
paraphrase-multilingual-MiniLM-L12-v2. 
to 
convert the query into a dense numerical vector. This vector 
reflects the query’s semantic meaning, enabling accurate 
matching with similar searches in the dataset. 
 
d) Calculating Similarities: Precomputed embeddings 
of every question in the dataset are compared to the generated 
query embedding. Each dataset question’s relevance to the 
user’s inquiry is examined using a metric called cosine 
similarity. The most pertinent question is found by sorting 
the similarity scores. 
 
e) Decision: Found a Relevant Answer? The system 
decides if the top match’s similarity score is higher than a 
predetermined threshold (e.g., 0.7). The matched response 
from the dataset is picked, if the threshold is attained. If not, 
the system logs the query for more study and confesses that 
it was unable to locate a pertinent response. 
f) Generate Text and Audio Response: The system 
produces a text response if it identifies a pertinent response. 
Additionally, Google Text-to-Speech (gTTS) is employed 
to deliver an audio version of the response for greater 
accessibility. This stage guarantees that clients with varying 
levels of literacy may utilize the system. 
g) Apologize and Log Feedback: The system tells the 
user that it is unable to deliver an appropriate response if 
no relevant answer is detected. The inquiry is logged for 
further study, including its context and the system’s judgment. 
The system’s continual progress depends on this feedback 
mechanism. 
h) Response Delivered: Finally, the user receives the text 
and audio response via the chatbot interface. By doing this, 
the question resolution process is performed, guaranteeing 
that the user will acquire the greatest response or recognition. 
B. Key Features 
Several major aspects are added into the system architecture 
to boost its usability and performance: 
• Multilingual Support: The system’s multilingual  
support provides accessibility and inclusion for a wide 
range of users. For Indian languages, IndicTrans2 
(AI4Bharat) powers translation capabilities, enabling  
precise and culturally meaningful translations 
• Semantic Understanding: The system makes use of 
powerful sentence-transformer models to assure precise 
query interpretation and matching. 
• Audio Accessibility: For users with low literacy levels, 
the text-to-speech tool delivers an audio answer. 
• Continuous 
Improvement: 
To 
uncover 
system 
problems and direct future changes, user feedback is 
logged. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Amrita School of Engineering. Downloaded on February 18,2026 at 03:49:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

============================================================

=== FILE: Intelligent_Chatbot_Assistant_in_Agriculture_Domain7.pdf (Total Pages: 15) ===
--- Page 1 ---
Intelligent Chatbot Assistant in Agriculture
Domain
Rahul Biswas[0009−0009−4459−4756] and Neeraj Goel[0000−0002−8740−6737]
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Ropar, Punjab, India.
{2021csm1013,neeraj}@iitrpr.ac.in
Abstract. Agriculture is known as the economic game changer of In-
dia. It is the primary driver of GDP growth because of India’s robust
agricultural industry, and proper knowledge about agriculture techniques
helps increase crop yield. So, answering the different types of crop-related
queries are very important. We proposed the intelligent chatbot appli-
cation in the agriculture domain so that farmers can get the correct
information about farming practices. Our system is farmer-friendly and
capable enough to instantly answer farm-related queries from the knowl-
edge base, such as plant protection, fertilizer uses, government schemes,
and many others. We used the agriculture-related data in question-
answer format and implemented the pre-trained model of the Sentence-
Transformer approach in our chatbot application to answer providing.
We also deployed the TF-IDF and Bag-of-Words method but achieved
a 96% accuracy rate for the test data in the sentence transformer pre-
trained model. With the help of API services, our system also shows the
crop’s latest mandi (market) rate and current weather information. So,
the proposed chatbot system will keep the contribution for farmer’s cost
savings. Overall, our chatbot system is straightforward and more efficient
for the farmer to make better decisions.
Keywords: Sentence Transformer Pre-Trained Model · TF-IDF · Bag
of Words · Pegasus Model · Mandi(Market) Rate API · Cosine Similarity
· Weather API.
1
Introduction
In Asia, most countries depend on agriculture to fulfill the food demand of the
people, and agriculture is a significant contributor to the country’s increasing
productivity. In India, nearly 60% of the population works in agriculture [1],
and lots of people from rural areas are farming for their livelihood as their oc-
cupation [2]. However, most Indian farmers do their farming process in their
traditional method, and because of the technological or communication gaps,
they are unknown of the latest farming information. Most of the time, they are
unable to solve farming-related problems. As a result, they experience limited
crop growth, which causes them to incur losses.

--- Page 2 ---
2
R. Biswas et al.
So, to solve the agriculture sector issues, the government already take many nec-
essary steps. The farming authority also organizes several programs for farmers,
like Front Line Demonstrations with the help of a network of Krishi Vigyan
Kendras in every district, Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana, and other services [3].
Moreover, we can see many existing services for farmers, like the Kisan calling
center, eNam, and farmers portal.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare is continuing the Kisan call
center to facilitate efficient communication of farmer’s queries in various lan-
guages. However, due to many incoming calls, it is sometimes challenging to
attend to all of them promptly, and users have to wait a long time to ask their
queries. As a result, users need help getting the solution to their query. Be-
sides, Agriculture Ministry has also introduced a web-based service called the
Farmers Portal, which offers a comprehensive range of information and services
to farmers in one convenient site. The main feature of this digital platform is
agri-Advisory, crop management, animal husbandry management, and so on [4].
Despite its benefits, the Farmers Portal has some limitations, including fixed
support, and users may need to have the technical knowledge to navigate the
platform. These challenges may be complex for some users to access required
agricultural information. Moreover, we can see the eNAM - National Agriculture
Market platform for selling the farmer produce, the Kisan Suvidha application,
which integrates all the farm-related services.
Most of the existing works used the traditional approach or pre-implemented
platform to deploy the farmer chatbot applications, which is less suitable for a
large number of chatbot knowledge. We can also see the most recently introduced
technique, CHATGPT, which can answer all types of questions. However, in the
agriculture domain, some factors also limit this application. We introduced an in-
telligent chatbot system for farmers to get suitable solutions for various farming
practice queries. We aim to enhance farmer operations and eventually support
the agriculture industry’s expansion and sustainability. One of the biggest chal-
lenges of deploying an agriculture chatbot application is ensuring reliable and
efficient data. The collected data for the agriculture chatbot application must be
relevant, accurate, and up-to-date to provide the farmer with the best possible
answer and support. To overcome this challenge, we collected data from KCC
(Krishi Vigyan Kendra) and focused on manual data collection, knowledge mod-
els, and real-time API information. In our chatbot, users can get answers like
plant protection, cultural practices, fertilizer uses, water management, and so on.
Our system also provides the current market price of different crops in India,
real-time weather information through the API system, and supports the Hindi
and English languages. We developed our application in the Indian context, so
we consider the Hindi language as it is the official language of India. We deployed
a sentence transformer, the latest AI technique, and built a user-friendly system
for non-technical individuals. Our chatbot is convenient and provides customized
information about farming-related user queries.
The paper organizes as follows: Section II discusses the related works. Section III
describes the proposed methodology, and IV explains the dataset collection and

--- Page 3 ---
Intelligent Chatbot Assistant in Agriculture Domain
3
prepossessing. Section V describes the dataset analysis. Section VI discusses the
approaches, and Section VII evaluates the result and discussion. Section VIII
concludes the overall work.
2
Related Works
Bhardwaj et al. [5] proposed the farmer-assistive chatbot using the KNN and
the sequence-to-sequence model for the answer generation that is multi-language
supported. Arora et al. [6] implemented the RNN seq2seq technique for the con-
versational system using the KCC and web scraping data. They also used the
CNN approach to detect crop disease, and the weather information will come
through the API services. Niranjan et al. [7] discussed the overall survey on the
chatbot application. They described the shortcomings of the various technique
and suggested the seq2seq as a good solution in the case of the chatbot assistant.
Gounder et al. [8] and Mohapatra et al. [9] implemented the TF-IDF approach to
generate the vector and used the cosine similarity method to find the similarities
of the question from the KCC dataset. Besides, they considered the lemmati-
zation process instead of the steaming process for the data preprocessing and
deployed the application in Android [8]. On the other hand, they [9] used Mon-
goDB as a database and found an excellent similarity score for the query text’s
more matching words.
Nayak et al. [10] introduced the agriculture expert chatbot application using
the chatterbot library, where they collected agriculture-related data in question-
answer format. They used the Levenshtein distance and the best-match approach
to answer the user queries correctly. Here, users can also ask their query through
voice and get agro-expert support in case of chatbot is unable to answer.
Jain et al. [11] deployed the FarmChat android application with audio and (au-
dio+text) and compared the output efficiency in their study. Here, they con-
sidered not only the Kisan calling center data but also collected information
from local cultivators and agriculturalists so that the application could answer
farm-related questions about potato crops easily. Thatipelli et al. [12] designed
an Agriculture robot with different types of sensors for collecting data from the
farmland and storing it in the IBM cloud for real-time analysis. Besides, they
also deployed the chatbot based on the collected data, which suggests a suitable
fertilizer considering different parameters and detects plant diseases. Momaya
et al. [13] also introduced the farmer assistive chatbot name ”Krushi” using the
RASA X framework, which is able to provide almost 70% of query answers.
Gunawan et al. [14] proposed an IoT - based chatbot application. With the help
of an IoT device, it senses the field humidity, temperature, and soil moisture and
sends the sensor data to the database regular basis. The chatbot uses this data
to provide real-time information and help urban farmers to improve agriculture’s
efficiency. Mostaco e al. [15] proposed the AgronomoBot, which can also answer
the farmer’s queries from the agriculture wireless sensor network data. The data
will come from the WSN database and deploy the application in the telegram for
the user interface. Kiruthika et al. [16] proposed a quite different chatbot system

============================================================

=== FILE: Sedek_2021_J._Phys.__Conf._Ser._1874_012022.pdf (Total Pages: 8) ===
--- Page 1 ---
Journal of Physics:
Conference Series
     
PAPER • OPEN ACCESS
Smart Agro E-Marketplace Architectural Model
Based on Cloud Data Platform
To cite this article: Khairul Anwar Sedek et al 2021 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 1874 012022
 
View the article online for updates and enhancements.
You may also like
Research on the analysis and optimization
method of offshore oil-platforms energy
system
Qing Hui Lou, Hong Hai Niu, Jun Chen et
al.
-
Hybrid Testing System Development for
Single Point Mooring Lines FOWT’s
Oscar Pires, José Azcona-Armendáriz,
Carlos Casanovas et al.
-
Design and characteristic analysis of a
four-claw spherical photoelectric
stabilization platform
Shan Xue, Nanfang Lv, Xianyu Meng et al.
-
This content was downloaded from IP address 106.192.243.236 on 07/09/2026 at 17:32

--- Page 2 ---
Content from this work may be used under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 licence. Any further distribution
of this work must maintain attribution to the author(s) and the title of the work, journal citation and DOI.
Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd
RETREAT 2020
Journal of Physics: Conference Series
1874 (2021) 012022
IOP Publishing
doi:10.1088/1742-6596/1874/1/012022
1
 
 
 
 
Smart Agro E-Marketplace Architectural Model Based on 
Cloud Data Platform 
Khairul Anwar Sedek1, Mohd Nizam Osman2, Mohd Adib Omar3, Mohd Helmy 
Abdul Wahab4, Syed Zulkarnain Syed Idrus5 
1,2Faculty of Computer and Mathematical Sciences, Universiti Teknologi MARA, 
Perlis Branch, 02600 Arau, Perlis, Malaysia  
3School of Computer Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Pulau Pinang 
4Faculty of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Universiti Tun Hussein Onn 
Malaysia 
5Faculty of Applied and Human Sciences, Universiti Malaysia Perlis (UniMAP), 
Perlis, Malaysia 
khairulanwarsedek@uitm.edu.my 
Abstract. Digital marketplace provides a convenient place for farmers to market farm’s 
products sales anywhere anytime. If this platform is fully utilized by farmers, it can improve 
the sustainability of farmers in agriculture industry because it can improve sales volume and 
fair price for farmers and consumers. However, the current AgroBazaar Online has a few 
enhancements that can be proposed to improve the acceptance from farmers and consumers. 
Therefore, there is a need to design the system that can encourage target users to use the system 
and make the system easy to be used by farmers who relatively have lower ICT literacy. The 
main requirement to develop intelligent marketing is data to provide intelligent information 
and services for both farmers and consumers. This project aims to explore data strategies to 
provide intelligent digital agricultural marketplace based on cloud data platform. This research 
proposes to develop cloud data platform for e-marketplace based cloud data platform approach. 
The proposed methodology consists of six phases: problem identification and motivation, 
definition of the objectives for a solution, design and development, demonstration, evaluation, 
and communication. This paper proposes an architectural model of agriculture marketplace 
cloud based on cloud data platform. The architectural model will be used for development of e-
marketplace that fulfil the Malaysia’s IR 4.0 policy and National Agro-Food Policy (NAFP). 
1.  Introduction 
Agrobazaar Online is one of e-marketplace in Malaysia. It recorded MYR 3.05 million sales value in 
2018 [1]. Compared to overall fruit production is MYR 5.8 billion and vegetable is MYR 5 billion in 
2018 [2]. Based on the available data, only very small percentage of agriculture products are sold 
through e-marketplace by farmers. This might due to low acceptance of e-marketplace as technology 
for marketing and sales of their products. 
Among main issues in agriculture and foods are diversity of products, the deterioration of fresh 
products within a short time, the limitations in the evaluation of quality characteristics at the final 
customer, the consumer, the relevance of commodity products, and the distances between areas of 
production and areas of consumption [3]. Therefore, the right data strategies are needed to provide up 
to date information for accurate decision making for marketing and predicting product demands. 

--- Page 3 ---
RETREAT 2020
Journal of Physics: Conference Series
1874 (2021) 012022
IOP Publishing
doi:10.1088/1742-6596/1874/1/012022
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
An alternative to the traditional marketplace is through e-commerce platform as a digital for selling 
and buying agricultural products. Digital marketplace provides a platform that can be used by farmers 
to sell their products directly to consumers with higher price and they also can enjoy higher sales 
volumes.  
However, there are a few challenges that need to be addressed by developers to develop e-
marketplace. Designers need to design the system that can encourage target users to use the system 
and make the system easy to be used by farmers who relatively have lower ICT literacy [4]. One way 
to solve this problem is to develop a Smart Agro-Marketplace that provides friendly user interface and 
intelligent marketing services.  
The main requirement to develop intelligent marketing is data to provide intelligent information 
and services for both farmers and consumers. Data is the first element in the information value chain 
and then followed by information, knowledge, decision and actions. Addressing the correct data 
strategies will produce quality input to produce information, knowledge, decision, and action for 
marketing. Otherwise, the agricultural marketplace still acts like a basic e-commerce platform without 
intelligent information and service to help farmers to market their products like professional 
marketers. 
This paper explores data strategies to provide intelligent digital agro-marketplace based on the 
cloud data platform. Cloud data platform provides business analytical, intelligent information and 
services [5]. It benefits the farmers to find buyers for their products and predicts the future demands to 
reduce unsold products. Furthermore, it can increase the acceptance from farmers and consumers to 
use the digital marketplace.  
Agriculture environment fluctuates and it always driven by uncertainty. The need always changes 
to adapt the current and new situation. This results in data structure changes very frequently where the 
data table and column can be deleted or renamed anytime due to changes in the data sources. Data 
sources can come from variety of sources such as web log, user log, IoT devices, and RDBMS. 
Thus, it requires a very flexible data platform that can adapt to the changes. There are two possible 
solutions: Cloud Data Warehouse (CDW) and Cloud Data Platform (CDP) [5]. 
Like a traditional enterprise data warehouse, CDW architecture has relational data warehouse and 
Extract/Transform/Load (ETL) process. The relational data warehouse is responsible to store, process 
and service the data to the end-users. 
CDP is a platform to ingest, store, process and make data available for analysis using layered 
architecture. The CDP architecture consists of four layers: ingestion, storage, processing and serving 
layers.  
CDP differs from CDW in two ways. First, CDP uses different design approach where designing 
for data platform does not need to provide schema for the incoming data. The approach eases handling 
of schema changes. 
Second CDP uses different data processing approach. CDP data processing approach provides a 
more flexible mechanism to handle large semi-structured data set using Apache Spark. Apache Spark 
provides modular and reusable code which is faster for data processing because it uses machine 
learning to make complex code simpler. Therefore, CDP brings better flexibility and better 
performance compared to CDW. 
 
2.  Related Work 
There are a few initiatives that embark digital marketplace or electronic marketplace in developed and 
developing countries. Even in least developed country such as Uganda, the digital marketplace has 
been initiated [4]. In developing country such as China, the digital marketplace is known as 
Shouguang Vegetable Trading Market Online (SSVTMO) a B2B marketplace [6]. Another developing 
country is South Africa that already adopts e-marketplace by majority of key decision makers in the 
agricultural industry. In developed countries such as Germany, Denmark, and Finland, they are early 
adopters of advanced farming system to achieve precision farming practices [7]. 

============================================================

=== FILE: frsus-04-1073873 (1).pdf (Total Pages: 14) ===
--- Page 1 ---
TYPE Original Research
PUBLISHED 09 February 2023
DOI 10.3389/frsus.2023.1073873
OPEN ACCESS
EDITED BY
Huaqun Guo,
Singapore Institute of Technology, Singapore
REVIEWED BY
Balkrishna Narkhede,
National Institute of Industrial
Engineering, India
Ivan Bergier,
Embrapa Digital Agriculture, Brazil
*CORRESPONDENCE
Alesandros Glaros
aglaros@uoguelph.ca
SPECIALTY SECTION
This article was submitted to
Quantitative Sustainability Assessment,
a section of the journal
Frontiers in Sustainability
RECEIVED 19 October 2022
ACCEPTED 20 January 2023
PUBLISHED 09 February 2023
CITATION
Glaros A, Thomas D, Nost E, Nelson E and
Schumilas T (2023) Digital technologies in local
agri-food systems: Opportunities for a more
interoperable digital farmgate sector.
Front. Sustain. 4:1073873.
doi: 10.3389/frsus.2023.1073873
COPYRIGHT
© 2023 Glaros, Thomas, Nost, Nelson and
Schumilas. This is an open-access article
distributed under the terms of the Creative
Commons Attribution License (CC BY). The use,
distribution or reproduction in other forums is
permitted, provided the original author(s) and
the copyright owner(s) are credited and that
the original publication in this journal is cited, in
accordance with accepted academic practice.
No use, distribution or reproduction is
permitted which does not comply with these
terms.
Digital technologies in local
agri-food systems: Opportunities
for a more interoperable digital
farmgate sector
Alesandros Glaros1*, David Thomas2, Eric Nost1, Erin Nelson3 and
Theresa Schumilas4
1Department of Geography, Environment and Geomatics, University of Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada,
2Open Food Network Canada, St. Agatha, ON, Canada, 3Department of Sociology and Anthropology,
University of Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada, 4Laurier Centre for Sustainable Food Systems, Wilfrid Laurier
University, Waterloo, ON, Canada
Agriculture e-commerce technologies are transforming how small and medium-scale
farmers distribute food, consumers access local food, and market vendors negotiate
sales. However, most of the social scientiﬁc literature exploring digital agriculture
concentrates on big data analytics in the context of commodity farming systems
and conventional supply chains. In this paper we review the social scientiﬁc
literature on agriculture e-commerce technologies and situate this literature within
broader debates over digital agriculture and its uneven social and economic
dynamics. We ﬁnd that most social scientiﬁc literature does not include agriculture
e-commerce in its deﬁnition of digital agriculture, instead deﬁning it predominantly
in terms of production (e.g., variable-rate technology) or veriﬁcation (e.g., blockchain)
technologies. We contextualize this review with results from a series of focus
groups exploring the challenges faced by Ontario’s “digital farmgate sector”—the
suite of agriculture e-commerce platforms that organize local food sales for hubs,
farmers’ markets, and small- and medium-scale farmers—related to lack of platform
interoperability. We ﬁnd that local food systems actors are increasingly adopting
e-commerce platforms, particularly in the context of the pandemic, and observing
substantial business-related beneﬁts to their adoption. Yet, there are common
frustrations with digital tools due to market fragmentation and lack of platform
interoperability. We recommend the collaborative development of an open standard
for e-commerce platforms that allows for the cross-platform sale of local food and
farming products.
KEYWORDS
local food, e-commerce, digital agriculture, food system, political economy, interoperability,
platform
1. Introduction
It is clear that a “digital revolution” is underway in agriculture (Fraser and Campbell, 2019).
On-farm, a suite of data collecting devices (e.g., sensors, drones), combined with Internet of
Things (IoT) technologies, communicate with decision-support software to inform farmers’
management of ﬁelds at ever-ﬁner spatial and temporal scales: where and how to apply pest
or weed management strategies, to harvest, or to water (Balafoutis et al., 2017; Fountas et al.,
2020). Some suggest that, mid-stream, blockchain technologies are poised to secure distribution
systems contributing to food traceability goals from farm to landﬁll (Weersink et al., 2018; Nayal
et al., 2021). Finally, at the downstream end of the supply chain, the e-commerce sector has
risen to prominence in recent years, across the globe. The entrance of Amazon into the market,
through its acquisition of Whole Foods, signals how major corporate actors are beginning to shift
food retailing and shopping habits online (Hillen and Fedoseeva, 2021). The pace of e-commerce
Frontiers in Sustainability
01
frontiersin.org

--- Page 2 ---
Glaros et al.
10.3389/frsus.2023.1073873
adoption substantially increased as a response to COVID-19
restrictions (Galanakis, 2020). While digital agriculture tools are
not new, the pace of development appears to be increasing. Some
observers say these tools will fundamentally transform the way we
manage food, paving the way for massive increases in agriculture’s
contribution to national employment and social, environmental, as
well as economic goals across scales (Stackhouse, 2019; Basso and
Antle, 2020).
Scholars have explored the social and economic dimensions of
digital agriculture technologies for over three decades. In the 1990s,
political economists began to scrutinize precision agriculture as a
suite of technologies and were critical of its potential implications
for the environment and for farmers (Wolf and Wood, 1997).
More recent work has highlighted the experiences farmers have
with using digital tools and what factors lead to or prevent
farmers from adopting technologies (see e.g., Higgins et al., 2017;
Eastwood and Renwick, 2020). Critical scholars advance questions
regarding farmer autonomy and sovereignty with respect to digital
tools. These researchers suggest that digital tools risk further
consolidating power within the food system, between farmers who
can and cannot access them (see Rotz et al., 2019b) and between
farmers write-large and the technology companies that develop
them (see Miles, 2019; Duncan et al., 2021). Others have evaluated
discourses and perceptions regarding digital agriculture, noting
the tensions between technology providers who are optimistic for
digital agriculture and farmers who may be more skeptical (e.g.,
Jakku et al., 2019).
Broader governance considerations for digital tools have also
begun to be explored, with researchers documenting the actor
networks and policies that are mobilizing around diverse digital
tools (Klerkx and Begemann, 2020; Lajoie-O’Malley et al., 2020).
Recent literature catalogs this mobilization, reviewing topics
such as technology use and adoption, eﬀects of digitization on
farmer practice, power and ethics in digitalization, knowledge and
innovation systems change, and the economics and management of
digital value chains (Klerkx et al., 2019; Lajoie-O’Malley et al., 2020;
McCampbell et al., 2022). Overall, there is much critical scholarly
debate around who owns digital tools and the data they generate
(Bronson and Knezevic, 2016), who possesses the knowledge and
capabilities to use digital tools in meaningful ways (Carolan, 2018),
who is excluded from the digital revolution (Rotz et al., 2019a),
and how digital data are to be managed equitably and transparently
(Weersink et al., 2018). Responsible innovation has emerged as a key
approach to realizing inclusive governance mechanisms and more
equitable outcomes in digital agriculture (Bronson, 2018; Fleming
et al., 2018; Jakku et al., 2022).
One
under-researched
area
where
these
debates
around
ownership, use, power, and equity crystallize is in the interoperability
of digital agriculture tools. Interoperability refers to a condition in
which two or more technologies can communicate and interface with
each other, even if those technologies are developed from diﬀerent
companies or organizations. Calls for increased interoperability
in the digital economy have increased in recent years, as seen
in the design and implementation of FAIR (ﬁndable, accessible,
interoperable, and reusable) principles in multiple sectors, such as
academia (Wilkinson et al., 2016) and even agriculture (Phillips
et al., 2019; Arnaud et al., 2021). In the case of agriculture, a
lack of interoperability between hardware or software platforms
means technology users (e.g., farmers), become locked-in to
a
user-agreement
with
a
company.
This
poses
a
technical
challenge to farmers, making business management more time-
consuming and ineﬃcient (Bahlo et al., 2019; Hansen et al., 2021).
Limited interoperability is not just a technical challenge but a
political issue, as farmers have decreased ability or agency over
what tools they use or what is done with their data (see e.g.,
Rotz et al., 2019a).
1.1. Contributions
In this paper we analyze the technical and political dimensions of
interoperability with respect to agriculture e-commerce tools (AEC)–
tools that organize the sale of agricultural goods between producers,
distributors, and consumers. Much of the research and policy focus
regarding digital agriculture is on larger-scale, commodity-farming;
that is, how digitalization and big data are promising eﬃciencies and
environmental beneﬁts in agronomic (production) practices across
global value chains (see e.g., Kamilaris et al., 2019). While non-
governmental and international organizations have begun to explore
AEC as a part of the digital agriculture revolution (FAO and ZJU,
2021; Stephenson et al., 2021), critical social scientiﬁc literature has
yet to examine these technologies in substantial detail. Our study
is among the ﬁrst in this body of critical social scientiﬁc literature
to do so.
We contribute to critical social scientiﬁc literature on digital
agriculture technologies in four ways. First, we explore the extent
to which AEC tools are discussed within the digital agriculture
literature. It is important to examine agricultural applications of e-
commerce platforms, as these tools are more accessible to small and
medium-scale farmers compared to more expensive digital tools such
as autonomous tractors that often require existing ownership of large-
scale capital and land (Rotz et al., 2019a). We examine some of
the top-cited digital agriculture papers, exploring how they deﬁne
digital agriculture and if, and in what ways, they discuss the digital
farmgate sector. In doing so, we broaden the critical literature on
digital agriculture into an aspect of food systems it has neglected: e-
commerce. Second, we explore how local food system stakeholders
are using e-commerce tools in practice, by presenting the results of a
series of focus groups conducted with local food system stakeholders.
We describe how disruptions in farmgate marketing and sales,
through e-commerce platforms, are oﬀering opportunities and
challenges to farms that sell in multiple direct-to-consumer channels.
Factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic and increased consumer
interest in local food have accelerated the adoption of existing e-
commerce tools, making it important to evaluate their current use.
Third, we highlight interoperability-related issues faced by producers
and how they navigate these in practice. Fourth, we recommend
solutions to some of the stakeholder-deﬁned challenges related to
interoperability that we found through this research. We contribute
to digital agriculture scholarship by moving beyond a broad focus
on critique to solution, drawing from design process methodologies
(Chou, 2018). Speciﬁcally, we explore potential mechanisms through
which to address some of the political economic barriers identiﬁed in
this literature (e.g., interoperability-related challenges) that prevent
the widespread realization of beneﬁts of digital farmgate platforms.
Frontiers in Sustainability
02
frontiersin.org

--- Page 3 ---
Glaros et al.
10.3389/frsus.2023.1073873
2. Methods
2.1. Deﬁning agriculture ecommerce tools
AEC are online intermediary tools that coordinate online
market
transactions
across
the
food
system.
Platforms
may
integrate additional features designed for producers to catalog
inventory, market products, and organize distribution and pickups
with customers (wholesalers, consumers, restaurants, etc.). Digital
platforms in general, beyond food or agricultural e-commerce, have
only recently begun to be systematically explored (de Reuver et al.,
2018). The body of research exploring AEC is even more recent and
rapidly evolving. The results of a recent systematic review of AEC
research indicate that the predominant focus of this ﬁeld of study is
on the microeconomic factors that inﬂuence a ﬁrm’s adoption of e-
commerce tools, and work has been regionally concentrated in the
United States and China (Zeng et al., 2017). More recent eﬀorts have
begun to distinguish multiple types of AEC tools, considering their
function either for value transfer between ﬁrms and consumers or for
the governance and creation of grassroots interactions and networks
(Oncini et al., 2020). Crucially, this literature has highlighted the
present as a pivotal moment for the food platform economy, where
major corporate actors such as Amazon have yet to consolidate
and control the market, while multiple smaller players have geared
their operations for multiple types of markets, including local and
ecological food sectors.
In this paper, we focus on AEC tools designed for local and
regional food distribution as part of what we term the “digital
farmgate sector.” In turn, we typologize digital farmgate sector
platforms as either “tailored” or “generic.” Tailored platforms are
those that are designed to ﬁt the needs of local food systems
speciﬁcally by, for example, accommodating community-supported
agriculture (CSA) business management practices and organizing
multi-vendor sales channels. Tailored platforms prioritize local value
exchange by disrupting distribution patterns in a way that favors the
growth of decentralized supply networks (see Glaros et al., 2021).
They aim to do this by directly connecting farmers to other farmers,
distributors, wholesalers, restauranteurs, and individual consumers.
Generic platforms such as Shopify or Etsy are used for commerce
of all kinds, including, in some cases, the local and regional sale
of agricultural products (Figure 1). Generic platforms most often
host single storefronts and are not designed to facilitate network
interactions, instead prioritizing single business sales and services.
2.2. Focus groups: Exploring Ontario’s digital
farmgate sector
All research design was undertaken in collaboration with Open
Food Network (OFN) Canada. OFN Canada is a not-for-proﬁt
providing e-commerce solutions and sector development support
for local food system stakeholders. Open Food Network operates in
over ten countries while OFN Canada is headquartered in Ontario
but hosts shops across most provinces and territories in Canada. At
present, their ﬂagship e-commerce platform engages close to 1,000
community food initiatives across Canada. The platform hosts local
producers, processors and artisans, small scale diversiﬁed farms,
farmers’ markets, food hubs, buying clubs and local economic
FIGURE 1
Digital farmgate sector typology. The digital farmgate sector is part of
the broader AEC sector which includes platforms for food sales at
broader scales than local or regional (e.g., superstore online shopping
platforms).
development agencies, with the bulk of these stakeholders located
in Ontario.
This research aims to identify user experiences, concerns, and
challenges regarding the use of AEC in local food systems in
Ontario, focusing on lack of interoperability in the digital farmgate
sector. We employed a case study approach, focusing on Ontario’s
digital farmgate sector. A case study approach is widely used
across disciplines, and allows researchers to examine a complex
phenomenon, in this case interoperability, in a speciﬁc context
(Baxter and Jack, 2008). A case study approach seeks to identify
and recognize experiences, processes, and broad though maybe
not representative patterns in a speciﬁc context, rather than to
identify general trends throughout a population; its strengths are
in understanding context and searching for causal pathways, rather
than measuring correlation or probabilistic associations (Flyvbjerg,
2011). In case studies, it is recommended to use a variety of methods
to document ﬁndings to triangulate and corroborate ﬁndings across
multiple methods (Golafshani, 2003). As such, we used mixed
methods including focus groups and survey.
Further, we adopted a participatory methodological approach,
where we worked with local food system stakeholders to identify
needs and pursue research to directly address those needs (Minkler,
2005). This paper summarizes the ﬁndings of the ﬁrst of two
phases for a larger responsible research and innovation agenda
undertaken by OFN Canada. Extending participatory research,
responsible innovation practices work to co-develop and iteratively
test solutions with stakeholders in a way that better integrates and
directly addresses their needs (Bronson, 2018). The two phases for
this project are distinguished by the following two objectives:
Phase 1 (this paper): identify clear needs and challenges
experienced by local food system stakeholders regarding digital
technology use in the sector.
Phase 2 (future work): engage directly with local food system
stakeholders to design e-commerce solutions that directly address
those needs and challenges.
The data we report in this paper come predominantly from a
set of three focus groups and follow-up surveys undertaken in
Frontiers in Sustainability
03
frontiersin.org

============================================================

=== FILE: s11119-018-09624-8.pdf (Total Pages: 33) ===
--- Page 1 ---
Vol:.(1234567890)
Precision Agriculture (2019) 20:926–958
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119-018-09624-8
1 3
Architecture design approach for IoT‑based farm 
management information systems
Ö. Köksal1 · B. Tekinerdogan1 
Published online: 11 December 2018 
© The Author(s) 2018
Abstract
Smart farming adopts advanced technology and the corresponding principles to increase 
the amount of production and economic returns, often also with the goal to reduce the 
impact on the environment. One of the key elements of smart farming is the farm manage-
ment information systems (FMISs) that supports the automation of data acquisition and 
processing, monitoring, planning, decision making, documenting, and managing the farm 
operations. An increased number of FMISs now adopt internet of things (IoT) technology 
to further optimize the targeted business goals. Obviously IoT systems in agriculture typi-
cally have different functional and quality requirements such as choice of communication 
protocols, the data processing capacity, the security level, safety level, and time perfor-
mance. For developing an IoT-based FMIS, it is important to design the proper architec-
ture that meets the corresponding requirements. To guide the architect in designing the 
IoT based farm management information system that meets the business objectives a sys-
tematic approach is provided. To this end a design-driven research approach is adopted in 
which feature-driven domain analysis is used to model the various smart farming require-
ments. Further, based on a FMIS and IoT reference architectures the steps and the mode-
ling approaches for designing IoT-based FMIS architectures are described. The approach is 
illustrated using two case studies on smart farming in Turkey, one for smart wheat produc-
tion in Konya, and the other for smart green houses in Antalya.
Keywords Smart farming · Farm management information system · Internet of things · 
Architecture design
Introduction
Smart farming represents the application of modern information and communication technol-
ogies (ICT) into agriculture to increase the amount of production and economic returns, often 
also with the goal to reduce the impact on the environment (Rains and Thomas 2009). Similar 
 * Ö. Köksal 
 
koksal@aselsan.com.tr
 
B. Tekinerdogan 
 
bedir.tekinerdogan@wur.nl
1 
Wageningen University & Research, Hollandseweg 1, 6706 KN Wageningen, The Netherlands

--- Page 2 ---
927
Precision Agriculture (2019) 20:926–958 
1 3
terms are used for the same purpose such as precision agriculture, site-specific farming, site-
specific crop management, prescription farming, and satellite farming (Adamchuk et al. 2004; 
Zhang et al. 2002). Smart farming builds on advanced technology such as cloud computing, 
remote sensing, data-driven farming, big data analytics and internet of things (IoT). Several 
important benefits of smart farming have been provided in the literature including optimiz-
ing production efficiency, optimizing quality of the crop, minimizing environmental impact, 
minimizing risk, conservation of resources, reducing cost, increasing profit, and better man-
agement decisions (Sørensen et al. 2010, 2011; Rains and Thomas 2009; Zhang et al. 2002).
One of the key elements of the smart farming is the farm management information system 
(FMIS). Although initially FMISs started as simple record keeping systems, modern FMISs 
are sophisticated systems with advanced modules supporting a comprehensive set of farm-
ing operations (Fountas et al. 2015). With the introduction of IoT, FMIS and smart farming 
in general have gained a new momentum. The IoT helps in smart and automated information 
gathering and merging. It helps as well as in monitoring sensor data coming from different 
machines, animals, plants, other farms and greenhouses and other systems such as unmanned 
air and land vehicles. In this way, the decision making and planning in the agricultural domain 
can be further supported which can lead to even more effective and efficient farming. With 
the help of the IoT, farming practices such as yield monitoring, cultivar selection, pest man-
agement, irrigation, etc. can be applied more precisely. Crop yield can be monitored and pre-
cise crop maps which show high and low production areas can be obtained readily (Rains and 
Thomas 2009).
For developing an IoT-based FMIS it is important to design the proper IoT architecture 
which represents the overall gross level structure of the system. IoT based farm management 
information systems typically have different functional requirements such as the type of crop, 
the type of sensors, communication protocols, and the data processing capacity. Besides of 
functional requirements also quality requirements such as security level, safety level, time 
performance, and overall cost of development and operation are also different for different 
applications.
The different requirements typically require changing the IoT architecture. In the literature, 
several reference architectures for FMISs and IoT have been proposed that can be reused to 
derive the IoT application architecture. Deriving the proper architecture however is far from 
trivial and this can impede the success of the IoT system. The objective of this study is to con-
tribute to the current state-of-the-art of FMISs by enhancing the current architecture design 
approaches for IoT-based FMIS. Hereby, the study aims to provide an architecture design 
method for designing IoT-based FMISs. The approach presented adopts a feature-driven 
domain analysis approach to model the different smart farming requirements. Further, based 
on FMIS and IoT reference architectures the steps and the modeling approaches for design-
ing the IoT-based FMIS architecture are described. The approach is illustrated using two case 
studies on smart farming in Turkey, one for developing IoT-based FMIS for smart wheat pro-
duction in Konya, and the other for smart green houses in Antalya.
Background and related work
Internet of things (IoT)
Until recent time, the internet was primarily used for interconnecting computers any 
time and any place but this required human interaction and monitoring. The IoT is a new 

--- Page 3 ---
 928
Precision Agriculture (2019) 20:926–958
1 3
paradigm that adds a dimension to the current information and communications technolo-
gies (ICTs), whereby the dimension “Anything communication” is added to the communi-
cation capabilities. The IoT enables anytime, anyplace connectivity for anything, by linking 
the objects of the real world with the virtual world. In the IoT world physical things and 
virtual things, all interact with each other in the same space and time.
Since the IoT is the result of technological progress in many fields such as wireless 
sensor networks, machine-to-machine communication, mobile computing, ubiquitous 
computing, and embedded systems, the term “IoT” might have different meanings. Many 
definitions of IoT can be found in the literature, but the IoT is defined by the International 
Telecommunication Union (ITU) as “the network of physical objects or ‘things’ embedded 
with electronics, software, sensors, and network connectivity, which enables these objects 
to collect and exchange data”. Here “thing” is defined as: an object of the physical world 
(physical things) or the information world (virtual things), which is capable of being iden-
tified and integrated into communication networks (ITU 2005). McEwen and Cassimally 
(2014) formulate the IoT with a simple equation as: “Physical Object + Controller, Sensor, 
and Actuators + Internet = IoT”.
The IoT is the result of technological progress in many parallel and often overlap-
ping fields, including those of embedded systems, ubiquitous and pervasive computing, 
mobile telephony, telemetry and machine-to-machine communication, wireless sensor 
networks, mobile computing, and computer networking. What is important is that IoT 
adds a dimension to the current ICTs, which already provide “any time” and “any place” 
communication.
Various reference architectures have been provided for the IoT. In general, IoT archi-
tecture is represented as a layered architecture. In this case a “layer” simply represents a 
grouping of modules that offers a cohesive set of services. Based on the literature (Al-
Fuqaha et al. 2015; Pandya and Champaneria 2015; Gazis et al. 2015; Palattella et al. 2013; 
Sheng et al. 2013) the reference architecture is shown in Fig. 1.
The reference architecture includes the following layers: device, network, session, appli-
cation, business, management and security. The device layer consists of sensors and physi-
cal devices. This layer identifies and collects data and specific information generated by 
sensors and physical devices. The data gathered is passed to the network layer. In essence 
the device layer bridges the gap between the physical world and the digital world. The 
network layer provides functionality for networking connectivity and transport capabilities. 
This layer is also called transport layer. This layer securely transmits data gathered from 
sensors to the session layer. The transmission medium can be wired or wireless. The ses-
sion layer is responsible for service management and consists of functionality for setting 
up and taking down of the association between the IoT connection points. Several session 
Fig. 1  IoT reference architecture
Device Layer
Network Layer
Session Layer
Security Layer
Management Layer
Application Layer
Business Layer

============================================================

